Anatomical Pathology
Anatomical pathology is one of those medical doctor specialties that study the morphologic aspects of a disease. An Anatomical pathologist key specialization is to diagnose diseased tissue and investigate the mechanisms and development of the disease. They do this by examining the tissues removed by needle aspiration, surgical procedures, or autopsy.

Anesthesiology
Anesthesiology (anesthesia) is a diversified specialty where physicians are required to tactically merge their knowledge of physiology and pharmacy and use their technical skills to provide pain management, critical care, and perioperative care. To be able to excel in this specialty, one needs to have certain strengths such as the ability to perform under pressure, think quickly in stressful situations, and use your hands to work in a team environment. This specialty does not offer an opportunity to establish a long-term patient-physician relationship.

Cardiology
Cardiology is one of the many medical doctor specialties where practitioners need to prove their mastery and competence. Cardiologists are expected to act as only consultants with respect to cardiovascular disease. As a cardiology specialist, you must be able to deal with all kinds of cardiovascular problems associated with hypertensive, rheumatic, and congenital heart disease and with cardiomyopathies.

Cardiovascular/Thoracic Surgery
Cardiac Surgery is the area of surgery that deals with diseases of the heart and vessels. It is a demanding, technical, and extremely diverse specialty. As a cardiac surgeon, you are exposed to multiple medical problems and you often have to interact with other operating room teams composed of specialized nurses, technicians, and anesthetists.

Clinical Immunology/Allergy
Clinical immunology/allergy focuses on disorders that are characterized by abnormal responses of the body’s immune system. This field broadly includes atopic diseases, asthma, eczema, adverse reactions to environmental agents, and more. Clinical immunologists/allergists largely cater to patients who are generally healthy and have minor medical issues.

Critical Care Medicine
Critical Care Medicine is the practice of multifaceted medicine with patients who have suffered or are at risk of sustaining life-threatening organ system failure due to some disease or injury. A critical care specialist is a physician or surgeon who understands all aspects of recognizing and managing acutely ill patients who require continuous monitoring and support.

Dermatology
Dermatology is a varied specialty that addresses benign and malignant disorders of the skin, mouth, external genitalia, hair, and nails, as well as a number of sexually transmitted diseases. Dermatologists engage in a variety of methodological work and they have the opportunity to work with a combination of cognitive skills and surgical skills. They also have expertise in caring for normal skin and in the prevention of skin disease and skin cancers.

Diagnostic Radiology
Diagnostic radiology focuses on using imaging techniques to study, diagnose, and treat disease. The radiologist’s primary role is acting as a consultant to other physicians. A physician who specializes in diagnostic radiology possesses a thorough knowledge of anatomy and pathology, as well as a proper understanding of medicine and surgery. Additionally, to be able to use sophisticated tools, a radiologist must also be competent in physics and how images are formed.

Emergency Medicine
Emergency medicine concentrates on recognizing, evaluating, and caring for patients who are seriously ill or injured. It’s an extremely high-pressure and fast-paced specialty and it requires a large base of medical knowledge. Emergency physicians (emergentologist) must be equipped to treat patients of all ages and a large variety of conditions and degrees of illness. This is often before a definite diagnosis of the condition is made.

Endocrinology and Metabolism
Endocrinology and Metabolism is the branch of medical doctor specialties that focuses on the study of the diseases of the endocrine organs, disorders of hormone systems and their target organs, and metabolism disorders. The physician who specializes in this practice is able to assess, diagnose, and treat patients with diseases such as diabetes, menopause, hypertension, thyroid diseases, cholesterol diseases, and more.

Family Medicine
Family medicine is the primary care medical specialty in Canada. It stresses care on the individual within the context of the family and the community as a whole. Family physicians (refers to both family physicians and general practitioners) offer their services across the entire spectrum of care, regardless of patient age, sex, or condition. Public polls repeatedly confirm that the people of Canada place a high value on family doctors and their role in caring for the community.

Gastroenterology
Gastroenterology is a medical subspecialty of internal medicine that addresses the diagnosis and treatment of diseases and problems related to the digestive system including the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine (colon), gallbladder, pancreas, and liver. This specialty is procedure-oriented and requires the prowess and the ability to analyze problems and large data.

General Internal Medicine
Internal medicine is a slightly broad doctor specialty that is rooted in primary care and is dedicated to providing specialty care to adults. Internists diagnose and manage diseases involving almost all organ systems and they are specially trained to take care of seriously ill patients suffering from advanced illness and/or diseases of more than one system. Internists are trained in a wide variety of procedures from many different disciplines and they often perform these independently.

General Surgery
The general surgeon is trained to diagnose and provide care during preoperative, operative, and postoperative management of the patient. This includes having the knowledge of various surgical procedures including head, neck, pediatric, surgical critical care, surgical oncology, transplants, and more.

General/Clinical Pathology
General pathology is a medical specialty that’s concerned with all aspects of laboratory investigation in health and disease. This involves understanding the causes, manifestations, and diagnosis of a disease. A pathologist generally acts as a consultant for clinical physicians and advises them on the possible treatment of patients. Pathologists apply a range of biomedical science knowledge to achieve a diagnosis

Geriatric Medicine
Geriatric Medicine is mainly concerned with the diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of patients who are 75 years of age or more. Often certified doctor specialists in this field take academic positions in medical schools. Geriatricians often work with other members of the health care team to help older people come to a level of optimal ability and, when possible, return the person to their independent life at home.

Hematology
Hematology is a medical subspecialty of internal medicine that focuses on the nature, function, and diseases of the blood. A certified hematologist must possess a thorough knowledge of the basic medical sciences (e.g., physiology, pharmacology, biochemistry, immunology), along with sound knowledge of clinical medicine and relevant aspects of pathology.

Medical Biochemistry
The key role of the medical biochemist is to study and measure the biochemical abnormalities in human diseases. The field demands the candidate to possess technology-driven specialties. A certified medical biochemist is trained in the operation and management of hospital biochemistry laboratories and acts as an active consultant in all facets of their use.

Medical Genetics
Medical Genetics is a medical specialty that demands in-depth knowledge of basic genetic principles and genetic diseases that affect the human body. Medical geneticists are required to have a thorough understanding of the principles of genetic counseling. A geneticist provides counseling services to patients who may be at risk of genetic diseases due to family history.

Medical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases
Microbiology and infectious disease is a field of study that is concerned with human illness due to microorganisms. The specialty concentrates on the diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases. Since an infectious disease can affect any and all organs of the body, a medical specialist in this field must be prepared to deal with any part of the body.

Medical Oncology
Medical oncology is a medical subspecialty of internal medicine that is closely related to hematology and focuses on tumors occurring in all organ systems. It is a diverse field that involves almost all aspects of internal medicine and clinical knowledge and skills. A medical oncologist is someone who concentrates on the multidisciplinary care of cancer patients, including diagnosis, therapy, counseling, and general questions around cancer care.

Nephrology
Nephrology is a medical subspecialty of internal medicine where specialists diagnose and treat diseases of the kidneys and urinary system. A certified nephrologist must be able to exhibit the knowledge, attitudes, and skills required to care for patients with kidney disease and with disturbances of acid-base, fluid, and electrolyte metabolism.

Neurology
Neurology is the section of medicine that deals with the study of the nervous system in health and disease. A certified neurologist should be able to diagnose and treat nervous system disorders involving the brain and spinal cord and other nerve and muscular conditions. A major part of the neurology practice is consultative in nature.

Neurosurgery
Neurosurgery includes dealing with diseases of the skull, the brain, the pituitary, and the spinal cord. This discipline emerged as a result of a rising need for special expertise in the surgical and non-surgical treatment of different diseases that affect the nervous system and its supporting structures. The field of neurosurgery focuses on the central, peripheral, and autonomic nervous systems. Practitioners diagnose problems with the help of tools such as MRI, CT scans, and laboratory tests.

Nuclear Medicine
Nuclear medicine primarily focuses on the use of unsealed radioactive sources in the study, diagnosis, and treatment of a disease. This field of study combines medicine and basic biomedical science that has its origins in the fields of radiology, internal medicine, and pathology. A nuclear medicine specialist primarily deals with clinical, diagnostic discipline using radioactivity attached to pharmaceuticals.

Obstetrics/Gynecology
Obstetrics/gynecology is a doctor specialty that incorporates medical, surgical, and obstetrical and gynecologic competency and skills for the prevention, diagnosis, and management of a wide variety of conditions affecting women’s general and reproductive health. This is a combination of two specialties: Obstetrics focuses on providing care during pregnancy, labor, and the time directly after childbirth. Gynecology focuses on the health of the female reproductive system, including the diagnosis and treatment of various disorders and diseases.

Occupational Medicine
Occupational Medicine is one of the many different doctor specialties that stresses prevention and deals with the health needs of both individuals and groups. This is primarily with respect to their working environments and it includes the recognition, evaluation, control, management, and recovery of occupationally related diseases and injuries. It also focuses on improving the conditions that affect their ability to work.

Ophthalmology
Ophthalmology is the field of doctor specialty that deals with the screening, diagnosis, and treatment of optical, medical, and surgical disorders and diseases that are associated with the eye, orbital structures, and neuro-visual pathways. This medical specialty depends on a mixture of diagnostic, medical, and surgical skills.

Orthopedic Surgery
Orthopedic surgery is one of the many different doctor specialties that emphasizes the diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation, and prevention of diseases and injuries of the bones, joints, ligament, muscles, tendons, and nerves. The specialists in this medical specialty use medical, physical, rehabilitation, and surgery to restore normal function. Orthopedic surgeons treat diseases and conditions such as fractures, dislocations, torn ligaments, pulled muscles, sprains, and more.

Otolaryngology
Otolaryngology is one of the slightly different doctor specialties that is primarily concerned with the screening, diagnosis, and treatment of medical and surgical disorders of the ear, the upper respiratory and upper alimentary systems, and related structures of the head and neck. Certified otolaryngologists must possess a thorough knowledge of the general principles of medicine and surgery.

Pediatrics
Pediatrics is a field of doctor specialty that focuses on the physical, emotional, and social health of neonates, infants, children, adolescents, and young adults. This field of medicine is concerned with health promotion, prevention, detection, and treatment of physical, behavioral, mental/emotional, environmental, and social issues that affect children.

Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PM & R)
Also known as physiatry, physical medicine & rehabilitation focuses on the complete diagnosis, medical management, and rehabilitation of individuals of all ages with neuromusculoskeletal disorders and associated disabilities. This field of specialty offers expertise in multiple areas and offers attractive research opportunities.

Plastic Surgery
Plastic surgery is one of the medical doctor specialties that include the handling of serious burns, reconstruction of congenital malformations, cosmetic surgery, and other simple surgical procedures. Although a lot of plastic surgeons focus on cosmetic procedures, there is a unique possibility for major reconstructive surgery that can be done with an understanding of the principles of wound healing, skin flaps, and skin grafting.

Psychiatry
Psychiatry is the medical specialty that deals with the functioning of the mind. At the core of the psychiatrist’s role is a detailed assessment, leading to a diagnosis and a treatment plan for the care of patients who are suffering from mental illness, and emotional and behavioral disorders. The patients in this field of medicine show illnesses and problems that require extensive biological, psychological, and social evaluation to understand their illnesses and their inadequacies.

Public Health and Preventive Medicine (PhPm)
Public health and Preventive medicine is the field of medicine that places emphasis on the overall good health of the population. These doctor specialists use population health knowledge and skills to play a guiding and joint role in the sustenance and betterment of the health and well-being of the community as a whole. They gauge the health needs of the population and come up with strategies for improving health and well-being through disease prevention and health protection.

Radiation Oncology
Radiation oncologists are medical specialists with special knowledge, understanding, and expertise in the diagnosis and care of patients who are suffering from malignant diseases. These specialists are deeply engaged in the conceptualization and execution of the treatment plan of cancer patients. They, therefore, require specific knowledge and skills in the application of ionizing radiations to cancer treatment.

Respirology
Respiratory medicine, also known as respirology, is a medical subspecialty of internal medicine that focuses on the diagnosis and treatment of diseases that are associated with the respiratory system. This field of medicine is strongly rooted in physiology.

Rheumatology
Rheumatology is primarily focused on the diagnosis and treatment of rheumatic diseases, which may involve multiple systems, as well as joint, muscle, and skeletal disorders. Doctors who specialize in this field are normally interested in autoimmune diseases that underlie many rheumatologic conditions.

Urology
Urology is a surgical subspecialty that concentrates on the medical and surgical treatment of disorders and diseases associated with the female urinary tract and the male urogenital system. The most common clinical issues that come up involve prostate disease, renal dysfunction particular to surgical management (colic, stones), bladder dysfunction, and urinary tract infections.